ethics

god and nihilism

evolution -> the truth -> post-nature
moral from animals? nature?

Where do ethics come from? Some claim they are given by a god, which is an idea I won't entertain. Others claim they pre-exist somewhere in the universe, and are discovered by thinking. There is no reason to think this would be the case. We cannot, with any instrument, extract ethical information from nature. Even if such universal concepts existed, we would have no way of actually discovering them, and certainly no way of proving our findings to be correct. It is naîve to think that any thought is created by an external force rather than manufactured by the brain itself, from the materials gathered by our senses and through the processes of our own interpretations. And we cannot sense ethics. Abstract concepts can only be created in the brain. 

This leaves us with the conclusion that ethics is a purely human creation and as such, ultimately arbitary. That does not mean it is meaningless and random. Our sense of ethics is in fact rooted in human evolution. It is merely an extension of our natural, animal instincts. Those instincts do no exist for any reason. When we say they are features that have been selected by nature, all we mean is that other species and bloodlines with different instincts than ours did not thrive as well as we did. So, within the mechanics set by our ecological system and our niche within it, our instincts have proved useful. This does not make them "right", and they are not perfect. Evolution never produces a perfect result, only a functional, competetive species.

As we developed what we call consciousness, a burning need to explain things we did not understand was born within us. Our limited understanding brought us to many wrong conclusions. We explained our natural instincts and our social tendencies by some universal, unquestionable truth. And then we started teaching our children rules, sense of justice and conscience based on this truth we had created. It was no longer merely our natural instincts that guided our behaviour, but also the truth that obliges us. And since that truth is itself rooted in our instincts, those instincts became amplified. They also became distorted due to the personal interpretations of those in charge of deciphering the truth, whether by accident or by malice.

Some people call for us to look to nature as a guide for our ethics and society in general. But they cannot mean all of nature, after all, certain species frequently commit acts that, when done by humans, are almost universally seen as monstrous. So they must mean human nature. But they fail to distinguish between human action that is natural from that which is not. And they cannot, as such distinction does not exists. As a product of nature, any one thing humans do could be considered just as natural as any other thing. In fact, by demanding a return no "nature", they are "unnaturally" restricting our natural tendencies.

All concepts that humankind has created, including ethics, are simply products of an extended evolution. Humans have not surpassed evolution, it has only become more complicated. If we wish to respect human nature, then we must also respect further progress in human evolution. That includes changes that seem unnatural at first sight.

When we recognize that all our values, current and future, are born out of our nature, we do not become slaves to this nature. On the contrary, this allows us to cast aside our shackles that bind us to dogma. We can continue to improve our sense of justice beyond what we used to see as natural. By not blindly following our instincts, we can achieve that which we truly desire.


