People hate the word 'privilege'. No one wants to be called privileged, as it seems to invalidate one's personal struggles and achievements. In fact, it is easier for a person to accept the notion of everyone else living a hard life, than it is to accept the notion of living an easy life themselves, no matter how equivalent these notions here appear to be.

One cannot live the experiences of another, which creates a false sense of normality for one's own experience. And initially, that lived experience alone is what creates a person's framework for analyzing what is fair. To rid oneself of this slanted view requires a combination of critical introspection and the act of educating oneself about, and attempting to emphatize with, the perspectives of others. Only by contrasting one's own experience with that of others can one gain an understanding of fairness that is rooted in reality. And through this self- and social discovery one will always find privilege within.

Let's clear up some concepts about privilege.

1. Privilege is not binary.
It is not something one either has or has not. There is greater and lesser privilege, and no one is completely unprivileged. If we divide people into over- and under-privileged, we can only do so by comparing these people to an average or some other, arbitary standard.

2. Privilege is relative, not absolute.
This is proven by the definition of privilege, after all, it is impossible for all to be equally and similarly privileged. There must always be the 'other' that one holds that privilege over. In a completely egalitarian world, privilege would theoretically disappear. Also, a person is capable of holding multiple different privileges at the same time, over different people, over different reasons.

3. Privileges aren't directly comparable.
If person A holds a privilege over person B, and person B another privilege over person A, we cannot easily compare the degree of those privileges. After all, one person will always be more privileged in certain circumstances and settings, but less privileged in others. It is counterproductive to fight over who is more or less privileged, as long as both parties recognize the privilege and it's magnitude within themselves. Even the most underprivileged people hold certain privileges, which doesn't mean they are doing better than any particular person. Rather, these privileges, lesser as they may be, does save them from specific undesireable experiences.

4. Privilege does not deal with the individual.
To say that a person is privileged does not in any way describe that person's individual success. Nor does not in any way predict or guarantee future success. It is completely possible for a less privileged individual to succeed over a more privileged one, and vice versa. When one is privileged, it simply means that the subject belongs in an identity group whose members are statistically more likely to succeed, and that can achieve success more easily. The more such groups the subject belongs to, the more success is likely to come their way. In other words, a privileged person is not a fortunate individual. It is an individual that starts with an advantage. And although that advantage might be undone by misdeed or misfortune alike, less privileged people did not have that advantage to begin with.