Close your eyes. How many genders?

Gender is, by modern definition, a social construct. Social constructs are abstract concepts that can not be found in the physical world, but that are created by human will and kept alive by a mutual contract between people. They might have a basis in the material world, but they are still an arbitary human invention. Examples of social constructs are morals, laws, language, property and money. Social constructs are not everbeing, but tied to time. They are created, evolved and forgotten. They are not omnipresent, but tied to culture. Laws, currency and language loses all value and become nonsense when entering a culture that does not recognize them.

As social constructs are not something that can be studied scientifically, they cannot be proved to be "correct" or "incorrect". Instead, they gain legitimacy through use. The more people accept a social construct as valid, the more legitimate it is. A law that is not enforced is not a de facto law, and a word that is in a dictionary of a language but not used, is not de facto a part of that language.

When culturally different social constructs meet, they might prove incompatible. Such is the case with language. When languages develop independently, they concurrently invent words to represent the same concepts. However, those words may have multiple meanings, connotations and a scope that does not exists in other languages. For example, in various languages there exists but one word for both green and blue. This makes true translation impossible, and more of an art than a science. Something is always lost in translation, while something extra is gained. Just like language, any social construct will suffer through translation when it meets a similar concept in a different culture.

In modern English, sex and gender are officially considered separate concepts, although they have a correlation and connection. But we cannot brush aside the use of those words as synonyms, which gains lagitimacy through widespread use. It's petty to argue about the true meaning of words, what matters is what a person means when using them. The relationship between the words of sex and gender might have changed over time as well. And in other languages, there distinction between the words might not exist, or more commonly, both are covered by a single word. Or there might be words that appear familiar, but cannot be proven to have the exact same meaning as the english counterparts. 

Gender is difficult to define, but let's understand it as anything that makes for example, a man a man or a woman a woman, that is not strictly biological. Let's also define concepts that are not genders. We will consider gender as entirely separate from sex, sexuality and any other state of being that is not clearly gender-related. Transgender, nonbinary and genderfluid are not genders, because as labels they do not reveal anything about a person's gender specifically, only of the relation between their gender and their sex, or the concept of gender binary. Agender is not a gender, as it is literally the lack of any. Pangender might be considered a gender, if we can consider all pangender people to be roughly the same regarding gender. Any label that specifies a person's sex, or any other characteristic besides gender, is not a gender. For example, transfeminine or any of its synonyms. If we were to say, for example, that transfemininity is a gender, then it would be a separate gender to the gender of woman. Which would be saying that transfeminine people are not women.

When studying other cultures, past and present, people have found in them genders apart from man and woman. But is it certain that these cultures viewed these "genders" the same way that the progressive, modern English speaking world does? In Indonesia, for example, there exists 'waria', which is often referred as a third gender. But it is somewhat problematic. Waria are specifically male by sex, but female by some manner of gender role or presentation. It is not exactly the same thing that English speakers understand as gender. In the west, waria are often called transgender women. But if that is the case, then it is not a separate gender by western understanding, as the progressive position is that transgender women are simply women by gender. Also, the existence of waria is in some way exclusive due to its inclusiviness: There is no matching term for transgender men, nonbinary people or anyone else. And regardless of anything, waria is a local social construct, and as such, does not exist legitimately in other cultures. Nor should we adopt it into "western" cultures due to its incompatibility with the "western" idea of gender.

As long as we consider gender to be a social construct, the question "how many genders there are?" is too vague. We can only answer how many genders exists in a specific culture. And that question is answered by the will of the people. And the most popular, and therefore the most legitimate position seems to be that there are only two genders. It is not a thing that is "correct", it is simply the status held by current society. If we seek to overturn that, we must either attempt to popularize a new social construct in place of the previous, or reject the notion of gender as a social construct entirely and create a gender model that is suitably logic-based and scientific.

There are multiple models which seek to define a specific number of genders and more than two. One model confuses genders with labels that are related to gender, but are not specifically genders. Another model seeks to introduce all definitions of genders accross cultures and times, but the result is an imbalanced collection of redundant identities that are forced to fit into an incompatible framework. Yet another model defines a number of genders that are interpolations of the two "primary" genders, for example, 25% male, 75% female etc. But in this case, the number of genders is utterly arbitary and can never accurately describe all possible gender expressions.

A gender model with three or more genders simply does not work. The binary model is popular and describes most people, but is not inclusive to all. One possibility is the abolition of gender, but this is not something people generally wish. The only non-arbitary alternative then, is a spectrum-based model. A spectrum is capable of encompassing all possible gender expressions. Such a spectrum might need multiple axes besides the femininity-masculinity-axis, such as axes for gender intensity, gender scope and gender fluidity. Inside a spectrum it becomes very difficult to put one's gender into a word. Describing oneself is much harder than using a label. When viewing gender as a spectrum, the individual might find their gender to be something highly personal and unique to themselves. They might wonder whether any sort of gender model is in fact of any use.

The problem with all gender models, and gender itself, is that they are based around the concepts of masculinity and femininity, which themselves are social constructs. And we can easily see how these concepts are changing, becoming more vague and culturally dependant. Further, masculinity and femininity are not singular things, but merely collections of ways to express oneself. In fact they are stereotypes. It is not a rule that a person expresses all these things at the same time. Rather than gender, the discussion should be around those things that gender is made up of. As those things are entirely personal, gender starts losing its purpose. As a result, terms such as 'transgender' and 'nonbinary' also lose their meaning, since they are simply disclaimers that one's personal expression does not coincide with the stereotype which, based on their sex, is expected of them.

Why don't more transgender people wish to denounce gender? One reason is that one might find oneself incapable of abolishing or fundamentally changing the system, so they seek to work within the current framework, making small reforms in place of revolution and trying to fit into the system as much as it allows. Another reason is that inner and social conflict one feels is not just due to incompatibility with the stereotypes that make up gender, but also things that cannot be separated from biological factors. Thus, if we still see gender as separate from sex, what a transgender person experiences is not merely gender dysphoria, but also sex dysphoria in a literal sense. Because of this, merely abandoning the concept of gender is not enough to bring peace within. Then there is of course the fact, that without the idea of gender, people would propably end up going back to identifying people by sex.