'Female' is first and foremost an adjective and is rarely, beyond certain contexts, used as a noun. A noun is sort of like a name, a primary identifier. Whereas an adjective adds flair and describes certain relevant qualities about a thing, a noun signifies what that thing is in essence. So when an adjective is used like a noun, we are picking a quality that the thing has and suggesting that this quality is what defines the thing, what forms its essence, thus reducing the thing to a mere quality. When adjectives are used this way for people, we are somewhat stripping the individuality, the multitude of qualities, and the humanity of a person. We are showing the person in a light that the singular quality used to describe them is their only relevant quality, at least within the context this is done in. This is why saying 'gays' instead of 'gay people', 'blacks' instead of 'black people' and 'female' instead of 'woman', or for example, 'female athlete' sounds strange and has hostile undertones (except in certain contexts).

'Female' also refers explicitely to a person's biological sex, not to their gender. When used in place of 'women', it excludes transgender people. 'Male' and 'female' can also be used to force masculine or feminine, technically correct language on people that wish to distance themselves from such language. 'Female' has not only transphobic, but mysogynistic undertones as well: it reduces a person to a sex function. If one proclaims to be interested in, or looking for females, it creates a connotation that the person is looking for people with particular genitals or sex organs, with the explicit, and perhaps sole intent to have sex or to breed with.

Using adjectives such as 'male' and 'female' as nouns is more common in scientific language, specifically when comparing statistical differences between the two biological sexes. Here the biological factors are often more relevant than a person's gender, and when the sex is the quality that is compared, it can indeed become the sole relevant quality of a person. Most importantly, statistical studies are anonymous and do not focus on any one individual, but groups of people. The people become data points and form an abstract but human average. This is why it's acceptable to use such language in scientific, impersonal literature, but this very convention makes it feel unacceptable in other contexts. When used to refer to actual individuals, the language feels clinical and objectifying, almost like treating people as test subjects.

The names of the sexes are also used commonly when referring to non-human animals. Although some people use the affectionate and anthropomorphic words 'girl' and 'boy' when referring to pets, 'man' and 'woman' are never used. That is because as far as we know, animals don't have any concept of gender, and if they did, it could be completely incompatible with our definition of gender and therefore of no use to us. An animals sex is however relevant to humans. People are not interested in how an animal sees itself, they want to know how its sex affects its behaviour, physical charasteristics and its role in (selective) breeding. When 'female' is used for humans, it has the flavor of this animal connection, of the way and the reasons it is used for animals.

In my own experience, people who use 'female' in casual conversation in place for 'woman' nearly always so signs of belonging to a patriarchal spectrum of people. They are men with a narrow, conservative and essentialising view of gender. They often do not recognize gender and sex as separate concepts. Their view of women is likely misogynistic, containing one or both of its aspects: the sexualising, objectifying aspect and the spiteful, supremacist one. It is safe to assume they are transphobic, even if that does not influence their preference of the word. 'Female' is ubiquitous in extremely misogynistic communities, such as the "red-pilled" or "incel" communities. Although one may use the word in the wrong context for any reason, as a faux pas, it should always be considered a red flag.