What is meant by "wage-slavery"?

In a sense, there is a limited practical difference between slavery proper and wage labour, at least of the poorly paid variety.

A slave is not a machine that produces without fuel. A master cannot benefit from their slave unless they supply that fuel, by feeding them, sheltering them, giving them rest and caring for their health and any other need. An overworked or stressed slave may perish prematurely, or even gather the courage in their despair to turn against their master. The master cannot sleep in peace, living in the house of people who want to strangle him. Thus the slave's cost of living is covered by their master, while still giving, forced, much more value than one requires.

Like the slave, the poorly paid labourer is given no more than what is necessary to sustain life. And they are given their meal not out of charity or a sense of fairness, but as fuel to enable the perpetual continuation of work and the production of value to the employer. And although money exchanges hands and the worker is the one responsible for spending it, these are simply extra steps towards the same end: the capitalist master is but covering the cost of living of their employee slave.

The worker has certain freedom, but it is a boring, incomplete freedom. He may choose the place of work, the place of rest and the variety of consumables he enjoys. But he cannot choose to work where he is not wanted. He cannot choose to live where there is no work. And what he consumes is as much a decision of the market economy, of advertisements and artificial trends, as it is his own. And it is the market that chooses what kind of work and products come into being, regardless of their necessity, or irreversible harm, to society. So the worker chooses a product almost identical to another, but one that is known to be slightly less exploitative to nature and third world countries, not realizing that both brands are owned by the same conglomerate. He is given the illusion of choice.

And he has no choice but to play the game he is forced into. All other avenues are long gone. It is illegal for him to take the means of his substistence from nature, as all land and the resources within are the property of either capitalist or government. There is no legal way to acquire life-power other than by money. And there is no legal way to acquire money apart from wage labour or by starting a business. The latter is not possible to most, not only because of the capital required in advance, but also by the nature of business: for some to be employers, most must be employees.

Capitalism does not give freedom, apart from the freedom to exploit the less free. It absorbs freedom from the masses, replacing it with simulated freedom, and corrupts it into privilege for the few. For others, it is diluted slavery.